DNI: Full troubleshooting guide - 10 reasons why numbers are not swapping on your website
Your Nimbata DNI script is installed but the phone number on your website isn't changing.
This guide covers every known cause, from the most common to the most obscure, in the order you should check them.

Start here: Visit your website and add ?gclid=test to the end of the URL.
E.g.: https://www.yourwebsite.com/?gclid=test

Number swaps > the script is working. The issue is with your real traffic conditions. Jump to check 4.
Number does not swap > the script itself is the problem. Start at check 1.

1. The script is not installed or not loading

The most common reason numbers don't swap is that the script hasn't been placed on the page, or it's loading on some pages but not others.

Open your browser's developer console (F12 > Console) and type nimbata.
If you see nimbata is not defined or an error, the script is not loading on that page.
Check that the script appears in the page source (Ctrl+U) on the page you're testing.
Use Nimbata's built-in Website URL checker under Tracking > Tracking Code to confirm detection.
If deployed via GTM, confirm your tag's trigger is set to All pages (or your intended scope) and fires on DOM Ready.

Common causes:
The script was added to the homepage only.
The GTM tag has a scoped trigger.
The WordPress plugin was deactivated during a theme or plugin update.

2. There is no phone number in the page for the script to replace

Nimbata's DNI script works by replacing a number that already exists in your page HTML.
It cannot inject a number into a blank space or read a number from an href attribute alone.
If the number is rendered dynamically after load, via JavaScript, a page builder, or a CRM widget, or is simply absent from the DOM when the script runs, nothing will swap.

Right-click the phone number on your page and select Inspect.
Is the number visible as plain text in the DOM, or does the element appear empty?
If the number is injected dynamically, enable SPA mode in Tracking > Tracking Code so the swap logic re-runs after DOM changes.
If the number is inside an <iframe>, the script cannot reach it, see check 7.
Use the span tag method to give the script an explicit, format-independent target:
<span class="nimbata_number_1"></span>

Detailed guide: How to set up span tag

3. The swap target doesn't match the number on your page

Nimbata needs to know which number on your page to replace.
If your swap target doesn't match the number exactly as it appears in the HTML, including spacing, dashes, and parentheses, the script silently does nothing.

Go to Tracking > Tracking Code.
Compare your swap target to the number in your page source character by character.
Your website may display (555) 123-4567 while your swap target specifies 555-123-4567 - these do not match.
Update your swap target to match the exact string, or switch to the span tag method to eliminate format-matching issues entirely.

Detailed guide: DNI: swap target formatting rules and common mistakes

4. The gclid parameter is being stripped by a redirect or plugin

If ?gclid=test works but real Google Ads clicks don't swap, the gclid parameter is being removed somewhere between the ad click and the page load.

Click one of your own Google Ads and check whether gclid= appears in the browser address bar once the page loads.
If it doesn't, something is stripping it.

Common causes:
HTTP > HTTPS or www > non-www redirects that drop query strings.
A CDN or caching plugin (Cloudflare, WP Rocket, W3 Total Cache, Varnish) stripping or ignoring query string parameters.
A trailing-slash redirect mismatch between your ad's final URL and your actual page URL.

Fix the redirect to preserve the full query string.
Once gclid= survives to the page, swapping will work automatically.

Detailed guide: DNI: caching and CDN issues (Cloudflare, WordPress caching, server cache)

5. Auto-tagging is disabled in Google Ads

Nimbata's Google Ads swap groups rely on Google's auto-tagging to append gclid to ad URLs.
If auto-tagging is off, no gclid is ever sent.

In Google Ads, go to Admin > Account settings > Auto-tagging and confirm the checkbox is enabled.

6. The tracking source doesn't match your session

If your swap group source is set to a specific channel, e.g. Online paid, the number only swaps for sessions Nimbata attributes to that channel.
If you're testing with a direct visit and the source is set to paid search, the number won't swap.

Go to Tracking > Tracking Code.
Check the Source setting on your swap group.
Set it to All (or remaining) digital for general testing OR
Use ?gclid=test to simulate a paid search session.
If you have multiple swap groups all set to All visitors, they will conflict; only one will fire unpredictably.
Assign each swap group its correct, distinct source.

Detailed guide: DNI: testing visits (Google Ads, direct, organic)

7. The phone number is inside an <iframe>

Nimbata's script runs in your main page's JavaScript context and cannot cross iframe boundaries.
This affects phone numbers inside embedded contact forms (Typeform, HubSpot forms, JotForm, Calendly), click-to-call widgets, and live chat tools that display a number.

Move the phone number out of the iframe and onto the main page.
If the widget is a third-party embed you don't control, contact Nimbata support to explore alternatives.

8. The tracking number has no call flow assigned

Even if the script correctly swaps the number on the page, calls will not route if the tracking number has no call flow assigned.

Go to Tracking > Numbers.
Check the Call flow column for your tracking number.
If it is blank or shows no flow, go to Tracking > Call Flows.
Create or open a call flow.
Assign your tracking number to it.

9. A cookie consent manager is blocking the script

Consent banners (OneTrust, Cookiebot, CookieYes, Axeptio, and similar) can delay or entirely block JavaScript execution until the visitor accepts cookies.
If Nimbata is categorized as a tracking or analytics script, it will not fire for visitors who decline, and the number will not swap for those sessions.

Open your site in a fresh browser session without accepting the cookie banner.
Does the number swap?
Open the browser console and look for blocked scripts.
Review how your consent manager categorises the Nimbata script.
If compliant with your privacy policy, moving it to a Functional or Necessary category will resolve this.

Consult your legal team before changing cookie categorization.

10. A browser cache or ad blocker is interfering

Test in an incognito window with all extensions disabled to rule out browser cache, stored cookies, and ad blockers.